"Non-MLRA Soil Survey Area"|"TX481"|"Wharton County, Texas"||02/01/1968 00:00:00|"certified, major components"|09/10/2021 00:09:26|"TX481
The Mddjdp-Bernard loam, 0 to 1 percent slopes"" mapunit was edited and improved. The name of the project ""MLRA 150A - Component Classification Errors"" indicates what was edited.
The ""Tp djdx-Cieno soils, frequently ponded"" mapunit was combined with the ""Tp 2v3cn-Cieno loam, 0 to 1 percent slopes, frequently ponded"" map unit as a result of the ""MLRA 150A - Cieno consociation"" EVAL project"".
The tabular database was edited and populated according to guidance in Exhibits A and B of National Instruction (NI-305), and Part 610 of the National Soil Survey Handbook. Any spatial data edits were certified correct by the Soil Survey region GIS specialist, State Soil Scientist (SSS), and by the National Digitizing Center. The SSS certified the data population for all map units, and concurred with correlation of all projects mentioned, as they were documented in Soil Survey Area Legend(s), and in the Project Correlation tables.

The SSS certified the data population for all map units, and concurred with correlation of all projects mentioned, as they were documented in Soil Survey Area Legend(s) and in the Project Correlation table.

This dataset also contains the following changes:

A. Recalculated all national, regional, and local interpretations for all components.

B. The dataset was populated with data elements needed to support the Water Erosion Prediction Project (WEPP).

C. The eleven national interpretations listed below are new for Fiscal Year 2021 or revised:

AGR - Industrial Hemp for Fiber and Seed Production
DHS - Emergency Land Disposal of Milk
ENG - Deep Infiltration Systems
ENG - Lined Retention Systems
ENG - Shallow Infiltration Systems
ENG - Unlined Retention Systems
ENG - Ground-based Solar Arrays, Ballast Anchor Systems
ENG - Ground-based Solar Arrays, Soil-based Anchor Systems
FOR - Drought Vulnerable Soils
SOH - Dynamic Soil Properties Response to Biochar
SOH - Limitations for Aerobic Soil Organisms"|"13394"|"76321"|"76223"
